In 2021, the crypto asset market's ability to raise funds is much greater than the capacity of the conventional capital market, which is still around IDR 363.3 trillion. In fact, the Indonesian crypto market is reportedly the largest in Southeast Asia, and 30th in the world. "As of January 2022, the number of crypto asset investors has reached 11.2 million people, much greater than the number of investors in the Single Investor Identification (SID)-based capital market, which has only reached around 7.48 million investors," said Bamsoet. Deputy General Chair of Pemuda Pancasila and Deputy General Chair of FKPPI said that the size of the crypto market, on the one hand, can be interpreted as economic potential. Both as an investment opportunity, as an alternative source of state income from taxes, and as a stimulus to advance the national economy. Apart from that, of course it can also be optimized to increase Indonesia's role in the regional economy, for example by encouraging Indonesia to become a crypto hub in the Southeast Asia region. "To utilize the potential of the crypto market optimally, it is necessary to encourage regulatory arrangements which are not only important for providing legal certainty to business actors and legal protection for consumers. But also to ensure that digital economic activities make a real contribution to state revenues, for example from the taxation sector, explained Bamsoet. The Deputy General Chair of the Golkar Party and Deputy General Chair of SOKSI explained that it is necessary to prepare infrastructure for regulating and supervising crypto assets or digital assets, including trading. In this context, the presence of the Digital Future Exchange as the official crypto exchange in Indonesia will be a necessity. This step requires participation and commitment from all stakeholders, especially the Ministry of Trade, Ministry of Finance, Bank Indonesia and the Financial Services Authority, to sit together and formulate a comprehensive and implementable policy framework.
